By default, Islandora Workbench adds only one media per node. This applies to both `create` and `add_media` tasks, and the file that is used to create the media is the one named in the "file" CSV column. The media use term ID is defined in either the `media_use_tid` configuration option or in the "media_use_tid" CSV field.

However, it is possible to add more than a single media per node in `create` and `add_media` tasks. This ability might be useful if you have pre-generated derivatives (thumbnails, OCR, etc.) or if you want to add the main file (e.g. with a media use term of "Original File") and one or more files that are not generated by Islandora's microservices. Workbench looks for the `additional_files` configuration option, which maps CSV field names to media use term IDs. If the field names defined in this option exist in your CSV (in either a `create` task or an `add_media` task), Workbench creates a media for each file and assigns it the corresponding media use term. Here is an example of this configuration option:

```yaml
additional_files:
 - thumbnail: 20
 - rightsdocs: 280
```

The accompanying `create` CSV would look like this:

```text
file,id,title,thumbnail,rightsdocs
main.jpg,036,Testing,/tmp/thumbs/main_tn.jpg,/tmp/rightsdocs/036.txt
```

The accompanying `add_media` CSV using the same sample file paths would look like this:

```text
file,node_id,thumbnail,rightsdocs
main.jpg,2078,/tmp/thumbs/main_tn.jpg,/tmp/rightsdocs/036.txt
```

You can use multiple media use term IDs by subdelimiting them, e.g.:

```yaml
additional_files:
 - thumbnail: 20
 - rightsdocs: 280|465
```

Also note that if you don't want to leave the reserved `file` column empty when adding additional media, you will need to add the `allow_missing_files: true` option to your configuration file.

!!! warning
    If you are creating Media using this feature, you should temporarily disable Contexts that would normally generate derivatives eqivalent to the additional Media you are creating. Because Islandora creates derivatives asynchonously, it is impossible to guanantee that Contexts will not overwrite additional Media created using this feature. Running `--check` will warn you of this by issuing a message like the following: "Warning: Term ID '18' registered in the 'additional_files' config option for field 'thumbnail' will assign an Islandora Media Use term that might conflict with derivative media. You should temporarily disable the Context or Action that generates those derivatives."

