Video and audio service file media can have accompanying track files. These files can be added in "create" tasks by including a column in your CSV file that contains the information Islandora Workbench needs to create these files.

Since track files are part of the media's service file, you can only add track files to media that are tagged as "Service File" in your Workbench CSV using a "media_use_tid" column (or using the `media_use_tid` configuration setting). Track files will not work if they are associated with media tagged as "Original File" only (which is Workbench's default). Workbench cannot add track files to service files generated by derivative microservices because those deriviatives are created asynchronously, after Workbench has finished interacting with Drupal. Running `--check` will tell you if your `media_use_tid` value (either in the `media_use_tid` configuration setting or in row-level values in your CSV) are for the "Service File" taxonomy term.

!!! note
    In order to create media track files as described below, you must configure the "File" media type's "field_media_file" field to accept files with the ".vtt" extension. To do this, visit `/admin/structure/media/manage/file/fields/media.file.field_media_file` and add "vtt" to the list of allowed file extensions.

The header for this column looks like `media:video:field_track` - the string "media" followed by a colon, which is then followed by a media type (in a standard Islandora configuration, either "video" or "audio"), which is then followed by another colon and the machine name of the field on the media that holds the track file (in a standard Islandora configuration, this is "field_track" for both video and audio). If you have a custom setup and need to override these defaults, you can do so using the `media_track_file_fields` configuration setting:

```yaml
media_track_file_fields:
 audio: field_my_custom_track_file_field
 mycustommmedia: field_another_custom_track_file_field
```

In this case, your column header would look like `media:mycustommmedia:field_another_custom_track_file_field`.

You only need to use this configuration setting if you have a custom media type, or you have configured your Islandora so that audio or video uses a nonstandard track file field. Note that this setting replaces the default values of `video: field_track` and `audio: field_track`, so if you wanted to retain those values and add your own, your configuration file would need to contain something like this:

```yaml
media_track_file_fields:
 audio: field_my_custom_track_file_field
 video: field_track
 mycustommmediatype: field_another_custom_track_file_field
```

In the track column in your input CSV, you specifiy, in the following order and separated by colons,

- the label for the track,
- its "kind" (one of "subtitles", "descriptions", "metadata", "captions", or "chapters"),
- the language code for the track ("en", "fr", "es", etc.), and
- the absolute path to the track file, which must have the extension ".vtt" (the extension may be in upper or lower case).

Here is an example CSV file that creates track files for accompanying video files:

```
id,field_model,title,file,media:video:field_track
001,Video,First video,first.mp4,Transcript:subtitles:en:/path/to/video001/vtt/file.vtt
002,Image,An image,test.png,
003,Video,Second video,second.mp4,Transcript:subtitles:en:/path/to/video003/vtt/file.vtt
004,Video,Third video,third.mp4,
```

!!! warning
    Since a colon is used to separate the parts of the track data, you can't use a colon in the label. A label value like "Transcipt: The Making Of" will invalidate the entire track data for that CSV row, and Workbench will skip creating it. If you need to have a colon in your track label, you will need to update the label value manually in the video or audio media's add/edit form.

    However, if you are running Workbench on Windows, you can use absolute file paths that contain colons, such as `c:\Users\mark\Documents\my_vtt_file.vtt`.

You can mix CSV entries that contain track file information with those that do not (as with row 002 above, which is for an image), and also omit the track data for video and audio files that don't have an accompanying track file.

You can also add multiple track files for a single video or audio file in the same way you add mutliple values in any field:

```
id,field_model,title,file,media:video:field_track
003,Video,Second video,second.mp4,Transcript:subtitles:en:/path/to/video003/vtt/file.vtt|Transcript:subtitles:en:/path/to/another/track_file.vtt
```

!!! note
    If you add multiple track files to a single video or audio, only the first one listed in the CSV data for that entry will be configured as the "Default" track.

If your CSV has entries for both audio and video files, you will need to include separate track columns, one for each media type:

```
id,field_model,title,file,media:video:field_track,media:audio:field_track
001,Video,First video,first.mp4,Transcript:subtitles:en:/path/to/video001/vtt/file.vtt,
002,Image,An image,test.png,,
003,Video,Second video,second.mp4,Transcript:subtitles:en:/path/to/video003/vtt/file.vtt,
004,Audio,An audio,,Transcript:subtitles:en:/path/to/audio004/vtt/file.vtt
```
